Your Eminence,
Chairman, and members of the Board of Trustees,
Pro-Chancellor and members of the Governing Council
Vice-Chancellor, and other Principal Officers
Members of Wesley family
The academic community
Your royal majesties
High Chiefs, and chiefs of the Ondo Community
Our honourary awardees
Graduating students
Parents, and guardians,
Distinguished guests, 
Gentlemen of the Press,
Ladies and gentlemen.

It gives me great pleasure to welcome you all to Wesley University, Ondo, and especially, to this combined convocation ceremony.  I recall that the last time we gathered here for a similar purpose was over two years ago. Without doubt, the expectations on this ceremony, and whether or not it would ever hold, had lingered for so long. It is, therefore, with much gratitude to God, and the joy of all stakeholders that we are gathered here today to celebrate our graduands, who had completed their studies in 2016, 2017 and 2018.

This occasion also records the recognition of the achievements of some distinguished Nigerians, and for the first time, a Briton, in various fields of endeavour. One significance of this, that must not be lost on us, is that it helps our youths to focus as appropriate, and for their lives to be shaped by role models such as the honourary awardees of today. 

Yes, our dear Wesley University is recording another success today.  As on such other occasions, I welcome the Prelate, Methodist Church of Nigeria, His Eminence, Dr. Samuel Chukwuemeka Uche; the Chairman, Board of Trustees, Sir Ademola Aladekomo; the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Very Rev. Prof. Chima N. Madubuike; and other stakeholders to Ondo City.  Ondo is a peaceful city. Our people are not only peace-loving, but have unequalled commitment to education. This accounts, in no small measure, for the progress we have recorded so far, hosting so many educational institutions at all levels, including three tertiary institutions.  It is, therefore, my privilege, as the Paramount Ruler of Ondo Kingdom to invite all of you, our esteemed guests, especially those visiting for the first time, to take a tour of our fast developing City. I assure you of the unbounded hospitality of my forward looking people. 

The success story of Ondo City no doubt robs off on the institutions it is privileged to host, Wesley University inclusive.   Although the rate of development of this University has been rather slow, allow me to acknowledge the fact that there is evidence of new commitment to move faster on this track. I note in particular the successful transition to a new administration, with the appointment of a new Vice-Chancellor.

My interactions with the new Vice-Chancellor, Professor Sunday Ndubueze Ukachukwu, suggests to me that he is also focused and hardworking. I do believe Wesley University, Ondo, will climb onto higher heights under his leadership. I, therefore, seize this opportunity to call on the proprietors, Board of Trustees, Governing Council, and the entire University community, to give him maximum support and encouragement. Needless to add that the University, as always, can take the support of Ondo Kingdom for granted. My people are used to supporting great initiatives in education, and they are not about to stop; but let me crave your indulgence, Your Eminence, to underscore the growing concern of my people on what looks like a deliberate slowdown of the development of this University. 

Our concern is highlighted by two issues. First is the fact that 17 years after Ondo community made a donation of a large expanse of land (220 Hectares) to the Methodist Church, as permanent site for Wesley University, not a single physical structure has been developed at the site! Secondly, there are indications that plans are underway to relocate ALL the key programmes of the University from Ondo City. I look forward to a fuller discussion of this issue with the proprietors. 

As Chancellor of Wesley University, I have always seized the opportunity afforded by occasions of this nature, to urge all stakeholders not to give up on the University. It is indeed heartwarming that Wesley University, Ondo, is methodically surmounting some of the well known challenges that had dotted its path in the earlier years. Now that the University is coming of age, I expect that the speed of development will increase. The ability to hold this combined Convocation Ceremony is actually a form of assurance that the institution will surely get to its promised land.  We all deserve to congratulate ourselves on this accomplishment.

The graduands that we are celebrating today, should see themselves as overcomers, people who have been prepared and positioned to make their mark in the larger society. They are all fully equipped with the knowledge and skill requisite to their success in life. I, however, urge you all, not to see this moment as the end of your academic pursuit.  The world is changing fast; and you cannot afford to rest on your oars. Rather, you must keep going, to further improve yourselves, either through further studies, or acquisition of additional skills that would enhance your market value. The watchword is increased relevance in the society. The virtues you have imbibed in the course of your studies – values of hard work, dedication, courage, patience, faithfulness, trust and loyalty – must constantly be to you like a lamp. It is my prayer that the good Lord that has seen you thus far, will continue to bless and keep you, make you blessings to your family, and the society at large. Once again, I warmly congratulate you.

As I end my address, permit me, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, to call on the proprietors of Wesley University to do more than it had done in the time past, to ensure that this University of promise moves to its permanent site without further delay. Ondo community has done so much, with the donation of land, to facilitate this; and it is eager to do more. My counsel is that whatever restructuring and rebranding moves and efforts that are being considered should be anchored on this singular goal. For, the truth is that there can be no effective expansion by any organization that has not first secured its home base. Charity, they say, begins at home. It is the FULL development of this first initiative of yours, not abandoning it, that would serve as a lunch pad to other laudable ideas in university education that the proprietors may be incubating. 

I recall with nostalgic feelings my appointment some ten years ago as the pioneer Chancellor of this great University.  While it is a recognizable fact that every organization comes with its own challenges at different period of its existence, I feel very proud and grateful to God that this past ten years have been marked by some remarkable achievements.  As I exit the office of Chancellor therefore, permit me, Your Eminence, to express my profound gratitude to the Proprietor of the University for considering me worthy to serve in the esteemed office of Chancellor for the maximum two consecutive terms allowed by the University Law.  I consider this an honour not just to the Osemawe and Paramount Ruler of Ondo Kingdom but indeed to the entire Kingdom.  I commit to working closely with my Successor. 

I pray for continued progress of Wesley University. May the joy of this day continue to multiply in the lives of the gradaunds, their parents and guardians; and all lovers of good things.  May God continue to bless and keep us all. Amen.

I wish all our guests safe trip back to their destinations.

Thank you.
